#summary get your environment up and running
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

*Users* can go to the [http://code.google.com/p/bobbinwork/ project home page] and look under "links".

*Developers* may use any IDE or whatever they are comfortable with. This page concentrates on the Ganymede release (june 2008) of *Eclipse* and list step-by-step how to get an environment that allows to run, debug, test, build and profile (gather statistics) the applications.

You can checkout the project anonymously but as a contributing project member you can find the required subversion *password* [http://code.google.com/p/bobbinwork/source/checkout here]. To become a project member, drop a line on the [http://groups.google.com/group/bobbinwork discussion group] of the project.

*If not following the installation instructions below:* The [http://code.google.com/p/bobbinwork/source/checkout checkout] page tells how to get the project with a command line Subversion client. For testing and building you don't only need _trunk_ but also _dev-tools_, see [http://code.google.com/p/bobbinwork/source/browse/dev-utils/README.TXT dev-utils/readme.txt].  

= Project structure =
_src_ 
  has the main classes:
  * nl.BobbinWork.viewer.gui.BWViewer
  * nl.BobbinWork.grids.GridGUI.PolarGridPrinter
_JUnitTests_ 
  contains tests for JUnit4
_Tests_ 
  contains an attempt to use [http://www.uispec4j.org/download.html UISpec4J]. It should allow to test the GUI without the maintenance burden of tools based on recording. No luck so far (therefore not yet included in dev-tools) but not tried very hard yet.

[http://www.eclemma.org/ eclemma] can show you which code is touched by tests or manual execution of the code.

= Get Eclipse Ganymede with plug-ins =

download and unzip eclipse-java-ganymede-SR1-win32
you can get it from:
  * [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/]
  * Eclipse IDE for Java Developers (85 MB)

help

software updates

available software

add site (Subversion, coverage, findbugs)
  * http://www.polarion.org/projects/subversive/download/eclipse/2.0/update-site/
  * http://update.eclemma.org/
  * http://findbugs.cs.umd.edu/eclipse

back on "available software" check:

  * `[ ]`Ganymede
    * `[ ]` collaboration tools
      * `[v]` Suvbersive SVN team provider (Incubation)
    * `[ ]`testing and performance (otional)
      * `[v]` TPTP Log and Trace Analyzer
      * `[v]` TPTP Platform Project
      * `[v]` TPTP Test Framework and Tools Project
      * `[v]` TPTP Tracing and Profiling Tools Project
  * `[ ]`http://www.polarion.org/projects/subversive/download/eclipse/2.0/update-site/
    * `[ ]`Suvbersive SVN connectors
      * `[v]` Suvbersive SVN connectors
      * `[v]` SVNKit 1.1.7 Implementation
      * `[v]` SVNKit 1.2.1 Implementation
  * `[v]` http://update.eclemma.org/
  * `[v]` http://findbugs.cs.umd.edu/eclipse
  * `[ ]`Web Tools Platform (WTP)
    * `[v]` ... 3.0.3
  * `[v]` ... (whatever you like)

Install

coffee break, in case of problems try smaller chunks

= install and configure the project =

menu: file 

import
  * SVN
    * projects from SVN
next 

create new repository location (if not done already, path without trunk!):
  * http://bobbinwork.googlecode.com/svn
select trunk

finish

select new project wizard
  * Java
    * Java project
next

project name: for example: bw-trunk

finish

----

see [http://code.google.com/p/bobbinwork/source/browse/dev-utils/README.TXT dev-utils/readme.txt]

----

in left panel

select JUnitTests

right click

build path

use as source folder

----

right click: JUnitTests

run as

run configurations

test runner: junit4